Update Actions docs (#5990)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/data/actions.mdx

    enterprise: full
---

Often a single event does not make up an entire behavior that you want to track. For example, a signup can include not only pressing the signup button, but entering the correct information, and making it past the basic information input stage. 

Actions enable you to combine events that you want to be tracked together. You can then visualize actions in [Insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights) and [Dashboards](/docs/product-analytics/dashboards).

You can create and view actions by going to Data Management in the left-hand navigation sidebar, and then click on the Actions tab.

![How to view actions in PostHog](../../images/docs/data/actions/viewing-actions.mp4)

> ## Creating actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to create an action
```

Slightly more search friendly.

Actions can be created by either:
1. Clicking the "New action" button in the Actions tab, or
2. Using the [PostHog Toolbar](/docs/product-analytics/toolbar) to tag the elements that are relevant. We have a step-by-step tutorial on [creating actions using the toolbar](/tutorials/toolbar#creating-actions).

> > Note: Actions can be created retroactively, meaning they also tag events that happened in the past and not only events that happened after the action was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Actions are retroactive, meaning they also tag events that happened in the past, not only events that happen after the action was created.
```

Reviewer: I think it's more accurate to say they are retroactive.

You can create actions using events from three sources:

### 1. Autocapture

> Autocapture-based actions are based on frontend elements from your website, such as a button or an input. The easiest way to select them is using the toolbar. However, you can also set them manually if you wish by providing something to identify the element, like a selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autocapture-based actions are based on frontend elements from your website, such as a button or an input. The easiest way to select them is [using the toolbar](/tutorials/toolbar#creating-actions). However, you can also set them manually if you wish by providing something to identify the element, like a selector.
```

> Our [Autocapture](/docs/integrate/client/js#autocapture) functionality will capture a lot of frontend elements by default, but you will need to manually set anything else you want to be captured. Currently, autocapture will capture any click or change of input or submission of `a`, `button`, `form`, `input`, `select`, `textarea`, and `label` tags. All other elements need to be set manually. This important to note if you deviate from established HTML practices, such as using a `div` as a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our [autocapture](/docs/integrate/client/js#autocapture) functionality captures a lot of frontend elements by default, but you'll need to manually set anything else you want to be captured. 

Currently, autocapture captures any click or change of input or submission of `a`, `button`, `form`, `input`, `select`, `textarea`, and `label` tags. All other elements need to be set manually. This important to note if you deviate from established HTML practices, such as using a `div` as a button.
```

You can create actions using events from three sources:

### 1. Autocapture

Autocapture-based actions are based on frontend elements from your website, such as a button or an input. The easiest way to select them is [using the toolbar](/tutorials/toolbar#creating-actions). However, you can also set them manually if you wish by providing something to identify the element, like a selector.

Our [autocapture](/docs/integrate/client/js#autocapture) functionality captures a lot of frontend elements by default, but you'll need to manually set anything else you want to be captured. 

Currently, autocapture captures any click or change of input or submission of `a`, `button`, `form`, `input`, `select`, `textarea`, and `label` tags. All other elements need to be set manually. This important to note if you deviate from established HTML practices, such as using a `div` as a button.

> Autocapture is also conservative regarding `input` tags to prevent grabbing sensitive data. See [Autocapture](/docs/integrate/client/js#autocapture) for more details.

There are three ways to match your elements:

> 1. **Text:** The text on the element, if applicable. If you have buttons across your site, all saying ‘Sign Up’, you can track ALL of them, site-wide, as the same action, by choosing `Text: "Sign Up"` and not matching the URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Text:** The text on the element, if applicable. If you have buttons across your site, all saying ‘Sign Up’, you can track **ALL** of them, site-wide, as the same action, by choosing `Text: "Sign Up"` and not matching the URL.
```

> 1. Text: The text on the element, if applicable. If you have buttons across your site, all saying ‘Sign Up’, you can track ALL of them, site-wide, as the same action, by choosing `Text: "Sign Up"` and not matching the URL.
> 2. Only match if URL contains: The URL where this action needs to take place. If you choose to match the URL as well, it will track any button on that page if it contains the ‘Sign Up’ text (which could be more than one button).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Text:** The text on the element, if applicable. If you have buttons across your site, all saying ‘Sign Up’, you can track ALL of them, site-wide, as the same action, by choosing `Text: "Sign Up"` and not matching the URL.

2. **Only match if URL contains:** The URL where this action needs to take place. If you choose to match the URL as well, it will track any button on that page if it contains the ‘Sign Up’ text (which could be more than one button).
```

> 3. Matching selectors: details below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

3. **Matching selectors:** details below.
```

    </li>
</ul>

### 2. Page views

Actions can be creating using page view events that match urls containing a string, based on a regex or match exactly.

Regex matching is commonly used for URLs containing id-s like `/some/path/123/view`, which could be matched by a regex like `/some/path/\d+/view` into a single action, allowing for further analysis in other areas of PostHog.

### 3. Custom events

> Custom events can be sent to your PostHog instance via our [API](/docs/api) or one of our [libraries](/docs/integrate/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom events can be sent to your PostHog instance via our [API](/docs/api), or one of our [libraries](/docs/integrate/overview).
```

    </li>
</ul>

### 2. Page views

Actions can be creating using page view events that match urls containing a string, based on a regex or match exactly.

> Regex matching is commonly used for URLs containing id-s like `/some/path/123/view`, which could be matched by a regex like `/some/path/\d+/view` into a single action, allowing for further analysis in other areas of PostHog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regex matching is commonly used for URLs containing IDs like `/some/path/123/view`, which could be matched by a regex like `/some/path/\d+/view` into a single action.
```

### 3. Custom events

> Custom events can be sent to your PostHog instance via our [API](/docs/api), or one of our [libraries](/docs/integrate/overview).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom events can be sent to your PostHog instance via our [API](/docs/api), or one of our [SDKs](/docs/getting-started/install?tab=sdks).
```
